# How to Trade Support and Resistance

**Source**: https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/trading-the-lines
**Date**: 2026-02-15
**Level**: Elementary
**Section**: Support and Resistance Levels

## Key Concepts

Now that you know the basics of how to trade support and resistance , it’s time to apply these basic but extremely useful technical tools in your trading. Because here at BabyPips.com we want to make things easy to understand, we have divided how to trade support and resistance levels into two simple ideas: the Bounce and the Break . The Bounce As the name suggests, one method of trading support and resistance levels is right after the bounce. Many retail forex traders make the error of setting their orders directly on support and resistance levels and then just waiting for their trade to materialize. Sure, this may work at times but this kind of trading method assumes that a support or resistance level will hold without the price actually getting there yet. You might be thinking, “Why don’t I just set an entry order right on the line? That way, I am assured the best possible price.” When playing the bounce, we want to tilt the odds in our favor and find some sort of confirmation that the support or resistance will hold . For example, instead of simply buying right off the bat, we want to wait for it to bounce off support before entering. If you’ve been looking to go short, you want to wait for it to bounce off resistance before entering. By doing this, you avoid those moments where the price moves fast and breaks through support and resistance levels. From experience, catching a falling knife when trading can get really bloody! The Break In a perfect world, support and resistance levels would hold forever, politicians would never lie, McDonald’s would be healthy, and we’d all have jetpacks. In a perfect forex trading world, we could just jump in and out whenever the price hits those major support and resistance levels and earn loads of money. The fact of the matter is that these levels break… often . So, it’s not enough to just play bounces. You should also know what to do whenever support and resistance levels give way! There are two ways to play breaks in trading: the aggressive way or the conservative way . The Aggressive Way The simplest way to play breakouts is to buy or sell whenever the price passes convincingly through a support or resistance zone. The keyword here is convincing because we only want to enter when the price passes through a significant support or resistance level with ease. We want the support or resistance area to act as if it just received a Chuck Norris karate chop: We want it to wilt over in pain as price breaks right through it. The Conservative Way Imagine this hypothetical situation: you decided to go long EUR/USD hoping it would rise after bouncing from a support level. Soon after, support breaks and you are now holding on to a losing position, with your account balance slowly falling. Do you… A. Accept defeat, get the heck out, and liquidate your position. or B. Hold on to your trade and hope the price rises up again. If your choice is the second one, then you will easily understand this type of trading method. Remember, whenever you close out a position, you take the opposite side of the trade. Closing your EUR/USD long trade at or near breakeven means you will have to short the EUR/USD by the same amount. Now, if enough selling and liquidation of losing positions happen at the broken support level, the price will reverse and start falling again. This phenomenon is the main reason why a broken support level becomes a resistance level whenever it breaks. As you would’ve guessed, taking advantage of this phenomenon is all about being patient . Instead of entering right on the break, wait for the price to make a “pullback” to the broken support or resistance level, and enter after the price bounces. A few words of caution… IN FOREX, THIS DOES NOT HAPPEN ALL THE TIME. “RETESTS” OF BROKEN SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE LEVELS DO NOT HAPPEN ALL THE TIME. THERE WILL BE TIMES THAT PRICE WILL JUST MOVE IN ONE DIRECTION AND LEAVE YOU BEHIND. BECAUSE OF THIS, ALWAYS USE STOP LOSS ORDERS AND NEVER EVER HOLD ON TO A TRADE JUST BECAUSE OF HOPE. Whoops, sorry about that folks, the Caps Lock key got stuck.
