# Average True Range (ATR)

**Source**: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/atr.asp
**Date**: 2026-02-19
**Provider**: Investopedia
**Category**: indicators

## Key Concepts

The average true range (ATR) is a technical analysis indicator introduced by market technician J. Welles Wilder Jr. in his book "New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems." It measures market volatility by decomposing the entire range of an asset price for that period. The true range indicator is taken as the greatest of the following: The ATR is then a moving average of the true ranges, generally using 14 days. Traders can use shorter periods than 14 days to generate more trading signals. Longer periods have a higher probability of generating fewer trading signals. The formula to calculate ATR for an investment with a previous ATR calculation is: Previous ATR ( n − 1 ) + TR n where: n = Number of periods TR = True range \begin{aligned}&\frac{ \text{Previous ATR} ( n - 1 ) + \text{TR} }{ n } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&n = \text{Number of periods} \\&\text{TR} = \text{True range} \\\end{aligned} ​ n Previous ATR ( n − 1 ) + TR ​ where: n = Number of periods TR = True range ​ If there is not a previous ATR calculated, you must use: ( 1 n ) ∑ i n TR i where: TR i = Particular true range, such as first day’s TR, then second, then third n = Number of periods \begin{aligned}&\Big ( \frac{ 1 }{ n } \Big ) \sum_{i}^{n} \text{TR}_i \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{TR}_i = \text{Particular true range, such as first day's TR,} \\&\text{then second, then third} \\&n = \text{Number of periods} \\\end{aligned} ​ ( n 1 ​ ) i ∑ n ​ TR i ​ where: TR i ​ = Particular true range, such as first day’s TR, then second, then third n = Number of periods ​ The capital sigma symbol (Σ) represents the summation of all the terms for n periods starting at i , or the period specified. If there is no number following i , it is assumed that the starting point is the first period. You may see i=1 , noting to start summing at the first term. You must first use the following formula to calculate the true range: TR = Max [ ( H − L ) , ∣ H − C p ∣ , ∣ L − C p ∣ ] where: H = Today’s high L = Today’s low C p = Yesterday’s closing price Max = Highest value of the three terms so that: ( H − L ) = Today’s high minus the low ∣ H − C p ∣ = Absolute value of today’s high minus yesterday’s closing price ∣ L − C p ∣ = Absolute value of today’s low minus yesterday’s closing price \begin{aligned}&\text{ TR } = \text{ Max } [ ( \text{H} - \text{L} ), | \text{H} - \text{C}_p |, | \text{L} - \text{C}_p | ] \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{H} = \text{Today's high} \\&\text{L} = \text{Today's low} \\&\text{C}_p = \text{Yesterday's closing price} \\&\text{Max} = \text{Highest value of the three terms} \\&\textbf{so that:} \\&( \text{H} - \text{L} ) = \text{Today's high minus the low} \\&| \text{H} - \text{C}_p | = \text{Absolute value of today's high minus} \\&\text{yesterday's closing price} \\&| \text{L} - \text{C}_p | = \text{Absolute value of today's low minus} \\&\text{yesterday's closing price} \\\end{aligned} ​ TR = Max [( H − L ) , ∣ H − C p ​ ∣ , ∣ L − C p ​ ∣ ] where: H = Today’s high L = Today’s low C p ​ = Yesterday’s closing price Max = Highest value of the three terms so that: ( H − L ) = Today’s high minus the low ∣ H − C p ​ ∣ = Absolute value of today’s high minus yesterday’s closing price ∣ L − C p ​ ∣ = Absolute value of today’s low minus yesterday’s closing price ​ The first step in calculating ATR is to find a series of true range values for a security. The price range of an asset for a given trading day is its high minus its low. To find an asset's true range value, you first determine the three terms from the formula. Suppose that XYZ's stock had a trading high today of $21.95 and a low of $20.22. It closed yesterday at $21.51. Using the three terms, we use the highest result: ( H − L ) = $ 21.95 − $ 20.22 = $ 1.73 ( \text{H} - \text{L}) = \$21.95 - \$20.22 = \$1.73 ( H − L ) = $21.95 − $20.22 = $1.73 ∣ ( H − C p ) ∣ = ∣ $ 21.95 − $ 21.51 ∣ = $ 0.44 | ( \text{H} - \text{C}_p ) | = | \$21.95 - \$21.51 | = \$0.44 ∣ ( H − C p ​ ) ∣ = ∣$21.95 − $21.51∣ = $0.44 ∣ ( L − C p ) ∣ = ∣ $ 20.22 − $ 21.51 ∣ = $ 1.29 | ( \text{L} - \text{C}_p ) | = | \$20.22 - \$21.51 | = \$1.29 ∣ ( L − C p ​ ) ∣ = ∣$20.22 − $21.51∣ = $1.29 The number you'd use would be $1.73 because it is the highest value. Because you don't have a previous ATR, you must use the ATR formula: ( 1 n ) ∑ i n TR i \begin{aligned}\Big ( \frac{ 1 }{ n } \Big ) \sum_{i}^{n} \text{TR}_i\end{aligned} ( n 1 ​ ) i ∑ n ​ TR i ​ ​ Using 14 days as the number of periods, you'd calculate the TR for each of the 14 days. Assume the following prices from the table. You'd use these prices to calculate the TR for each day. You find that the highest values for each day are from the (H - L) column, so you'd add up all the results from the (H - L) column and multiply the result by 1/n, per the formula. $ 1.73 + $ 1.15 + $ 1.16 + $ 1.12 + $ 1.15 + $ 1.16 + $ 1.09 + $ 1.17 + $ 1.14 + $ 1.15 + $ 1.16 + $ 1.14 + $ 1.16 + $ 1.17 = $ 16.65 \begin{aligned}\$1.73 &+ \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.12 + \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.09 \\&+ \$1.17 + \$1.14 + \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.14 + \$1.16 \\&+ \$1.17 = \$16.65 \\\end{aligned} $1.73 ​ + $1.15 + $1.16 + $1.12 + $1.15 + $1.16 + $1.09 + $1.17 + $1.14 + $1.15 + $1.16 + $1.14 + $1.16 + $1.17 = $16.65 ​ 1 n ( $ 16.65 ) = 1 14 ( $ 16.65 ) \begin{aligned}\frac{ 1 }{ n } (\$16.65) = \frac{ 1 }{ 14 } (\$16.65)\end{aligned} n 1 ​ ( $16.65 ) = 14 1 ​ ( $16.65 ) ​ 0.714 × $ 16.65 = $ 1.18 \begin{aligned}0.714 \times \$16.65 = \$1.18\end{aligned} 0.714 × $16.65 = $1.18 ​ The average volatility for this asset is therefore $1.18. Now that you have the ATR for the previous period, you can use it to determine the ATR for the current period using the following formula: Previous ATR ( n − 1 ) + TR n \begin{aligned}\frac{ \text{Previous ATR} ( n - 1 ) + \text{TR} }{ n }\end{aligned} n Previous ATR ( n − 1 ) + TR ​ ​ This formula is much simpler because you only have to calculate the TR for one day. Assuming on Day 15, the asset has a high of $25.55, a low of $24.37, and closed the previous day at $24.87; its TR works out to $1.18: $ 1.18 ( 14 − 1 ) + $ 1.18 14 \begin{aligned}\frac{ \$1.18 ( 14 - 1 ) + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned} 14 $1.18 ( 14 − 1 ) + $1.18 ​ ​ $ 1.18 ( 13 ) + $ 1.18 14 \begin{aligned}\frac{ \$1.18 ( 13 ) + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned} 14 $1.18 ( 13 ) + $1.18 ​ ​ $ 15.34 + $ 1.18 14 \begin{aligned}\frac{ \$15.34 + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned} 14 $15.34 + $1.18 ​ ​ $ 16.52 14 = $ 1.18 \begin{aligned}\frac{ \$16.52 }{ 14 } = \$1.18\end{aligned} 14 $16.52 ​ = $1.18 ​ The stock closed the day again with an average volatility (ATR) of $1.18. Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 Wilder originally developed the ATR for commodities , although the indicator can also be used for stocks and indices as well. A stock experiencing a high level of volatility has a higher ATR, and a lower ATR indicates lower volatility for the period evaluated. The ATR may be used by market technicians to enter and exit trades and is a useful tool to add to a trading system. It was created to allow traders to more accurately measure the daily volatility of an asset by using simple calculations. The indicator does not indicate the price direction. It is primarily used to measure volatility caused by gaps and limit up or down moves. The ATR is relatively simple to calculate and only needs historical price data. The ATR is commonly used as an exit method that can be applied regardless of how the entry decision is made. One popular technique is known as the "chandelier exit," developed by Chuck LeBeau. The chandelier exit places a trailing stop under the highest high the stock has reached since you entered the trade. The distance between the highest high and the stop level is defined as some multiple multiplied by the ATR. Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 The ATR can also give a trader an indication of what size trade to use in the derivatives markets. It is possible to use the ATR approach to position sizing that will account for an individual trader's willingness to accept risk and the volatility of the underlying market. Assume the first value of a five-day ATR is calculated at 1.41, and the sixth day has a true range of 1.09. The sequential ATR value could be estimated by multiplying the previous value of the ATR by the number of days less one and then adding the true range for the current period to the product. Next, divide the sum by the selected timeframe. The second value of the ATR is estimated to be 1.35, or (1.41 * (5 - 1) + (1.09)) / 5. The formula could then be repeated over the entire period. The ATR doesn't tell us in which direction the breakout will occur, but it can be added to the closing price , and the trader can buy whenever the next day's price trades above that value. This idea is shown below. Trading signals occur relatively infrequently, but they usually indicate significant breakout points. The logic behind these signals is that whenever a price closes more than an ATR above the most recent close, a change in volatility has occurred. Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 There are two main limitations to using the ATR indicator. The first is that ATR is a subjective measure. It's open to interpretation. No single ATR value will tell you with any certainty whether a trend is about to reverse. ATR readings should always be compared against earlier readings to get a feel of a trend's strength or weakness. Second, ATR only measures volatility and not the direction of an asset's price. This can sometimes result in mixed signals, particularly when markets are experiencing pivots or when trends are at turning points. A sudden increase in the ATR following a large move counter to the prevailing trend may lead some traders to think that the ATR is confirming the old trend. However, this may not be the case. Average true range is used to evaluate an investment's price volatility. It is used in conjunction with other indicators and tools to enter and exit trades or decide whether to purchase an asset. An average true range value is the average price range of an investment over a period. So, if the ATR for an asset is $1.18, its price has an
