# Support and Resistance

**Source**: https://www.investopedia.com/trading/support-and-resistance-basics/
**Date**: 2026-02-19
**Provider**: Investopedia
**Category**: concepts

## Key Concepts

Traders and analysts chart the movements of stock prices over time to pinpoint the support levels and resistance levels that indicate optimal times to buy and sell. Support and resistance are two foundational concepts in technical analysis . Understanding what they are and how they work is essential to correctly reading a price chart. Technical analysis acknowledges that all stocks rise and fall in price constantly in response to supply and demand. By zeroing in on movements within a timeframe, traders seek to identify patterns. A stock's price may maintain a support level, below which its price won't drop. It may also show a resistance level at which buyers back off. Like many concepts in technical analysis, the explanation and rationale are relatively easy, but mastering their application in trading can take years of practice. Westend61 / Getty Images In a downtrend , prices fall because there is an excess of supply over demand. The lower the prices go, the more attractive they become to those waiting on the sidelines to buy the shares. At some level, demand that would have been slowly increasing will rise to the level where it matches supply. At this point, prices will stop falling. This is support. Support can be a single price level on the chart or a price zone. In any event, support is an area on a price chart that shows buyers’ willingness to buy. It is at this level that demand will usually overwhelm supply, causing the price decline to halt and reverse. Resistance is the opposite of support. Prices move up because there is more demand than supply. As prices move higher, there will come a point when selling will overwhelm buying. This happens for any number of reasons. It could be that traders have determined that the price is too high, or they have met their targets. It could be the reluctance of buyers to initiate new positions at such rich valuations. Regardless of the cause, a technician can clearly see on a price chart the level at which supply begins to overwhelm demand. This is resistance. Like support, it can be a level or a zone. Once an area or zone of support or resistance has been identified, those price levels can serve as potential entry or exit points because, as the price reaches a point of previous support or resistance, it will do one of two things: bounce back away from the support or resistance level, or violate the price level and continue in its prior direction—until it hits the next support or resistance level. The timing of some trades is based on the belief that support and resistance zones will not be broken. Whether the price is halted by or breaks through the support or resistance level, traders can bet on the direction of the price and quickly determine if they are correct. If the price moves in the wrong direction (breaks through prior support or resistance levels), the position can be closed at a small loss. If the price moves in the right direction (respects prior support or resistance levels), the move may be substantial. Support and resistance can be found in all charting time periods: daily, weekly, and monthly. Traders also find support and resistance in smaller time frames like one-minute and five-minute charts. But the longer the time period, the more significant the support or resistance. To identify support or resistance, you have to look back at the chart to find a significant pause in a price decline or rise. Then, look forward to seeing whether a price halts or reverses as it approaches that level. Many experienced traders will pay attention to past support or resistance levels and place trades in anticipation of a future similar reaction at these levels. Technical analysis is not an exact science, and sometimes the price will dip below support levels or reverse before it gets to the prior support level. The same is true for resistance: The price may reverse before it gets to the prior resistance level or break above it. In any case, flexibility is required in interpreting these chart patterns. This is why support and resistance levels are sometimes zones rather than precise numbers. There is nothing magical about these price levels. It is simply that many market participants are acting off the same information and placing trades at similar levels. Most experienced traders can share stories about how the price of an asset tends to halt when it gets to a certain level. For example, assume Jim is holding a position in a stock from March to November and that he expects the value of the shares to increase. Jim notices that the price fails to get above $39 several times over several months. Traders would call the price level near $39 a level of resistance. As you can see from the chart below, resistance levels are also regarded as a ceiling, because these price levels represent areas where a rally runs out of gas. Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia Support levels are the flip side of the coin. Support refers to the price level on a chart at which equilibrium is reached. Demand has increased to match supply. This causes the decline in the price of the asset to halt. The price has reached a floor. As you can see from the chart below, the horizontal line below the price represents the price floor. You can see by the blue arrows underneath the vertical line that the price has touched this level four times in the past. This is the level where demand meets supply, preventing further declines. This is support. Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia The examples above show how an asset's price stops moving at a specific level. This static barrier is one of the most popular forms of support/resistance. But the prices of financial assets generally trend upward or downward, so it's not uncommon to see these price barriers change over time. This is why the concepts of trending and trendlines are important when learning about support and resistance. When the market is trending up, resistance levels are formed as price action slows and starts to move back toward the trendline . When the price is moving against the prevailing trend, it is called a reaction. Reactions can occur for a large variety of reasons, including profit-taking or near-term uncertainty for a particular issue or sector. The resulting price action undergoes a plateau effect, or a slight drop-off in stock price, creating a short-term top. Many traders will pay close attention to the price of a security as it falls toward the broader support of the trendline because, historically, this has been an area that has prevented the price of the asset from moving substantially lower. For example, as you can see from the Newmont Corp. ( NEM ) chart below, a trendline can provide support for an asset for several years. In this case, notice how the trendline propped up the price of Newmont’s shares for an extended time. Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia On the other hand, when the market is trending to the downside, traders will watch for a series of declining peaks and will attempt to connect these peaks together with a trendline. When the price approaches the trendline, most traders will watch for the asset to encounter selling pressure and may consider entering a short position because this is an area that has pushed the price downward in the past. To be a valid trendline, the price needs to touch the trendline at least three times. Sometimes, with stronger trendlines, the price will touch the trendline several times over longer time periods. In an uptrend , the trendline is drawn below the price, while in a downtrend, the trendline is drawn above the price. The support/resistance of an identified level, whether discovered with a trendline or through any other method, is deemed to be stronger the more times that the price has historically been unable to move beyond it. Many technical traders will use their identified support and resistance levels to choose strategic entry/exit points because these areas often represent the prices that are the most influential to an asset’s direction. Most traders are confident at these levels in the underlying value of the asset, so the volume generally increases more than usual, making it much more difficult for traders to continue driving the price higher or lower. Unlike the rational economic actors portrayed by financial models, real human traders and investors are emotional, make cognitive errors, and fall back on heuristics or shortcuts. If people were rational, then support and resistance levels wouldn’t work in practice! Another common characteristic of support/resistance is that an asset’s price may have difficulty moving beyond a round number, such as $50 or $100 per share. Because people have an easier time visualizing round numbers, many inexperienced traders tend to buy or sell assets when the price is at a round number. Also, many target prices and stop orders set by retail investors and large investment banks are placed at round price levels. Because so many orders are placed at the same level, these round numbers tend to act as strong price barriers. For example, if all the clients of an investment bank put in sell orders at a suggested target of $55, it would take a large number of purchases to absorb these sales and create a new level of resistance. Most technical traders incorporate the power of various technical indicators , such as moving averages, to aid in predicting future short-term momentum. In fact, people who find it difficult to draw trendlines will often replace them with moving averages. As you can see from the chart below, a moving average is a constantly changing line that smooths out past price data, allowing for easier identification of support and resistance. Notice how the price of the asset in the chart below finds support at the moving average when the trend is up, and how it acts as resistance when the trend is down. Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia Traders can use moving averages in a variety of ways, such as to anticipate moves to the upside when price lines cross above a key moving average, or to exit trades when the price drops below a moving average. Regardless of how the moving average is used, it often creates automatic support and resistance levels. Most traders will experiment with different time periods in their moving averages so that they can find the one that works best for their trading time frame. In technical analysis, many indicators have been developed and are still being developed to identify barriers to future price action. Some indicators are plotted on price charts, while others are plotted above or below the price. It takes practice and experience to learn to use them effectively. But regardless of how complex an indicator appears, its use and interpretation are often no different from those of simpler indicators like moving averages and trendlines. For example, the Fibonacci retracement is favored by many short-term traders because it clearly identifies potential support and resistance levels. Notice in the chart below how the identified levels (dotted lines) are barriers to the short-term direction of the price. Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia 2020 The “golden ratio” used in the Fibonacci sequence. It is observed repeatedly in nature and social structure. Support and resistance levels can often be relatively close. A stock price may bounce between the two levels, sometimes for a long time, without ever showing a long-term direction. Some traders focus on exploiting these sideways trends . One strategy is to place short trades as the price touches the upper trendline and long trades as the price reverses to touch the lower trendline. This strategy is extremely risky. It's generally seen as better to wait to see in which direction the price will break out of the range and then place your trades in that direction. A previous support level will sometimes become
