# Where Does the Forex Broker's Price Come From?

**Source**: https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/forex-brokers-price-come
**Date**: 2026-02-14
**Level**: Kindergarten
**Section**: Forex Brokers 101

## Key Concepts

Have you ever wondered where your forex broker ’s prices come from ? 🤔 In this lesson, we’ll explore the sources of forex broker prices and how they’re determined. When trading forex, you are speculating on the future direction of currencies, taking either a long (“buy”) or short (“sell”) position depending on whether you think a currency pair’s exchange rate will go up or down. Specifically, you seek to profit from fluctuations in the exchange rates between currencies, betting on whether one currency’s value, like the Japanese yen, will go up or down in relation to another, such as the Australian dollar. Price movement s in the forex market are triggered by currencies either strengthening (price appreciation) or weakening (price depreciation). Your ability to open AND close trades is limited to the prices that your forex broker offers to you , as there is no other market for these trades. So now the question is… How do you know the prices that YOU see on your broker’s trading platform are an accurate reflection of what’s happening in the “real”(institutional) forex market? Let’s review one part of the earlier story between Batman and Spiderman: The game works like this: Try to guess if the GBP/USD exchange rate will go up or down. Let’s say the current exchange rate is 1.4000. Do you think it will go up or down? Notice how Spider-Man just seemed to make up a price for GBP/USD? Fortunately, Batman didn’t just take Spider-Man’s word for it and used his Batphone to verify the price with a third-party source. If you’re not familiar with the story above, this means you haven’t read our earlier lesson on How Forex Brokers (Kinda) Work . It’s highly recommended that you read this lesson first. Like Batman, you should wonder about the same thing regarding forex brokers. Where do the forex broker’s prices come from? Are the prices accurate? For any given currency pair, your forex broker will quote you two prices: A higher price (“ASK”) at which you can buy (“go long”) A lower price (“BID”) at which you can sell (“go short”) Collectively, the ASK and BID prices are referred to as the forex broker’s “price” to you. The difference between the lower and the higher price is known as the spread . You see these quotes on your trading platform (or “customer terminal”). These quotes displayed are known as a “ price stream ”. But where do the prices come from? Does the forex broker just make them up? It’s possible. But highly unlikely. Now you might be thinking, “Huh? It’s possible?” but… Did you know that your forex broker may show ANY prices it wishes? As we covered in a previous lesson about the FX market, retail traders can’t trade in the institutional or “interbank” FX market . We’re deemed uncreditworthy (“too poor”). So if you want to speculate on currency exchange rates, you need to find a retail forex broker. The forex broker “makes a forex market” for you to trade in. This is either in the form of CFDs (if you’re outside the U.S.) or rolling spot FX contracts (if you’re in the U.S.). Which together, can simply be called retail “ FX contracts “. These contracts involve only two parties: you and the forex broker . And since these contracts are created by the forex broker, it can technically quote whatever bid and ask prices it wants. And it’s up to you to choose whether you’ll trade at those prices. How and where a forex broker sources its prices is totally up to its discretion. On its trading platform, it may show you prices derived from outside sources or it may not. This means that prices offered by your forex broker may or may not reflect prices available elsewhere such as from another forex broker. Why is this the case? Shouldn’t the prices quoted by the forex broker be identical to the prices in the underlying (institutional) FX market? And there lies the problem. In the FX market, for each currency pair, there is no such thing as one “market price”. The FX market is what’s called an “ over-the-counter ” or OTC market. In an OTC market, there is no centralized “place” where all market participants gather and can see the same SINGLE market price. How Pricing Works on Exchanges To help you better understand why it’s important to understand the significance of the FX market being an OTC market, let’s compare this to an exchange-based market like the U.S. stock market. One of the founding principles of an exchange-based market is it must offer fair and equal access to all participants. Exchanges publish quotes for everyone to see and trade. To understand this better, let’s quickly look at how pricing works in the U.S. stock exchanges: When a trade occurs, an exchange reports the trade to a consolidated data feed called the SIP (Securities Information Processor), which disseminates the data. For example, when the NYSE executes a trade to buy Apple shares, it reports the trade to a SIP. In addition to trades, the best bid and ask prices on different trading venues are shared with the public to the SIP. The SIP then combines all quotes to determine the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO) . This data consolidation takes place very quickly. The average time it takes for SIPs to gather, consolidate, and disseminate a trade report is around 17 microseconds (millionths of a second). To put that in perspective, a human blink of an eye takes 100 milliseconds (a tenth of a second) or 100,000 microseconds! This means that pricing data updates in less than 0.017% of the time it takes to blink an eye! The NBBO is extremely important as it tells traders the price at which they ALL can buy and sell at that moment . In 2005, the SEC passed the Regulation National Market System, known as RegNMS , requiring brokers to obtain “best execution” for all orders within the NBBO. Basically, RegNMS obligates brokers to route orders to the venue offering the best price (which is based on NBBO). The advantage of having consolidated data in the U.S. stock market is that the NBBO provides unambiguous “reference” prices that allow all traders to assess whether they got fair pricing . The NBBO allows everyone to know the best bid and offer for every exchange-listed stock regardless of what venue they are posted on, all less than a millisecond after the quotes change. This provides fair and equal pricing for all traders , both large and small. All traders are protected by the prices that the exchange shows because EVERY trade must occur at prices no worse than the NBBO at the time the trade was executed . How Pricing Works in the Forex Market In an exchange-based market, there is a “single market” that allows everyone to interact at the same prices. In contrast, the FX market does not operate in a centralized public exchange. There is no “single market” which means there is no single “market price”. There is no equivalent of a data feed like SIP that consolidates all the trades that occur and the best bid/ask prices that are quoted. This means that the forex market does NOT have the equivalent of an NBBO for each currency pair that would provide an unambiguous “reference” price that every forex broker would have to adhere to. How Retail Forex Brokers Source Their Prices Reputable forex brokers will base their prices on the prices of other FX participants , usually banks and other non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) from the institutional FX market. These market participants are known as liquidity providers (LPs). A group of liquidity providers (LPs) is known as a liquidity pool. It is these prices that the forex broker uses as a REFERENCE price of an underlying currency pair. Or at least, should be using. As mentioned earlier, a forex broker will quote you two different prices for a currency pair: the bid and ask price. You see these quotes on your trading platform (or “customer terminal”). These quotes arriving are known as a “ price stream ”. The price that YOU see is based on prices that your broker obtains from these liquidity providers. The broker has a pool of multiple LPs from which it receives pricing for the various currency pairs it offers. The forex broker aggregates or collects these prices in real time to find the best available bid and ask price. Both prices do not necessarily have to come from the same LP. For example, the best available bid price may come from one LP, while the best available ask price may come from another LP. The aggregated prices are fed into a “ pricing engine ” which streams prices (your “ price stream “) to your trading platform. The price that YOU see will usually have a markup added (unless you’re paying commission). Theoretically, this should all be an automated process where the broker has neither control over the selection of the best available price from the pool of liquidity providers (LPs) nor can it manually intervene to alter any prices streamed to the trading platform (aside from adding a markup). Just because two traders use the same broker, it doesn’t automatically mean they both see the same bid and ask prices in their price stream. Different customers may be quoted different prices. It depends on how brokers profile their customers and if the price engine is configured to vary pricing by profile. This is known as “ price discrimination “. Ask your broker if it price discriminates between customers. Liquidity Providers Every reputable forex broker displays to YOU “their” price based on what liquidity they have access to . What liquidity they have access to depends on their liquidity providers (LPs). Forex brokers who are large enough to have a prime broker (PB) can access a mix of different liquidity providers such as Tier-1 banks, ECNs, and aggregators. Most of the global FX liquidity is provided by large banks with dedicated FX departments and are referred to as “ Tier-1 ” liquidity providers. This “Tier 1” group of liquidity providers is made up of names such as Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citi, Commerzbank, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, J.P Morgan, Nomura, Société Générale, and UBS. By connecting themselves to multiple LPs, these larger forex brokers can improve their prices and offer their customers the best available bid and best ask prices from among the LPs. How? When multiple liquidity providers stream their bid and ask prices, the broker’s “price engine” selects the best bid and ask price, which results in the best available spread. Theoretically, the collective trading volume of the broker’s customers encourages price competition among the LPs. Each LP is competing to be the forex broker’s hedging counterparty so this provides the leverage to demand better pricing. Having multiple liquidity providers is also important especially during abnormal market conditions, such as during times of extreme volatility, when some liquidity providers may decide to widen the spreads or stop quoting prices altogether . For A-Book brokers, this is crucial since their execution model is totally dependent on liquidity providers being available to provide quality liquidity even during volatile or illiquid market conditions. Smaller forex brokers source their pricing by connecting to an aggregated liquidity feed provided by a Prime of Prime (“PoP”), and sometimes in conjunction with other non-bank liquidity providers (“NBLPs”) who are known as “electronic market makers”. Examples of electronic market makers that are active in the FX markets are XTX Markets, Citadel Securities, Virtu Financial, Global Trading Systems, HC Technologies, and Jump Trading. PoP providers have prime broker (PB) relationships with major banks which give them the ability to aggregate prices from multiple LPs and distribute them to smaller forex brokers. Do you see bank logos on a forex broker’s website? If you see the logos of the big banks
